hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here
presenting another passage to adventure
for you this one from a hundred and
sixty eight years ago we're in the fall
of 1848 and Robert fortune is slowly
making his way to the green tea
districts of hue Cho this is in the
Huang Shan region of I'm clay province
Huang Shan of course the famous mountain
in China known for its unrivaled beauty
and gorgeous granite peaks it's one of
China's great tourist attractions and
the inspiration for countless poems and
landscape paintings going back to the
earliest days of Imperial China our
favorite snooty imperialist Robert
fortune is fetching all the way on route
to their destination about his servant
Wang he's been traveling with two hired
men one is this Wang who was local to
the area known as song low mountain a
legendary region of tea cultivation that
wasn't what it used to be the other
person in this trio he simply refers to
as two a man older than Wang they
traveled by river boat in a westerly
direction today their route is maybe a
four and a half hour drive but in 1848
without the convenience of the g56
highway it took weeks fortune notes
several places along the way - hey Joe
there's 20 showing Nijo and yen Joe to
name a few not what you call well-known
locales twin she is a tourist town that
today and I suppose back in fortunes
time as well served as a kind of gateway
to the Huang Shan area more notable
cities also mentioned include Xiao Qing
fortune mentions that he had heard the
city incheon was famous for all the
literati it had spawned and he didn't
hear wrong Wang XI jure for example
featured in CHP episode 96 was one of
the more famous Xiao Xin Ren people from
Shao Ching premier Cho and I also
featured in a CHP eight-part series
consider
himself a son of this town as well even
though he wasn't actually born there his
people came from there Aref also
mentions in this passage the cities of
yoyo and of course his second home by
now of Ningbo
he often mentions coming up on the
ramparts of the city a rampart as though
is the wall that surrounds most of these
Chinese cities the width of these
ramparts was sufficient enough to
stationed troops and defensive weapons
up until men figured out how to breach
these city walls or blow them up
that was how city dwellers defended
themselves against invading enemies
fortune got to see a lot of these old
city walls before they were destroyed in
the chaos of the 1800s and nineteen
hundreds some of them were so ancient
that they had simply eroded away over
the centuries so let's get on with
today's passage I gotta hand it to
fortune that took a lot of guts to do
what he did it would be hard enough
today to repeat his feet and the manner
he did but leaving the safety and
security of the treaty ports and
wandering into the interior which was
off-limits to the likes of Fortune was a
terribly risky and adventurous thing to
do anyways let's get on with RF and his
continuing adventure this one in the
employ of the British East India Company
we're reading from the book published in
1852 called journey to the tea countries
of China including song Lo and the Bo
hey Hills
this was published in 1852 on the
evening of the 31st of October we
reached wiping it is a city of
considerable size walled and fortified
who probably contains a hundred and
fifty thousand inhabitants this place is
just on the borders of the district of
Kwai Cho the dispute between Wong and
the boatman had not been forgotten and
the latter considered this a fitting
time to have his revenge
during the last two days he had been
hinting to some of the passengers said
he intended doing something at wiping
these men duly reported to wong what had
been told them and he began to be very
much frightened the rest of the Chinamen
with whom he was no favourite seemed to
enjoy his fears and did everything in
their power to exaggerate
dangers to which he had exposed himself
he had had several disputes with them
also during the journey and nearly the
whole of them bore him a grudge things
were in this very unsatisfactory state
when we reached the city of white King
it was by day two o'clock in the evening
and quite dark when we moored our boat
close under the city walls the boat men
went on shore as they did every evening
when we happen to stop near a town one
or two of their number who had been left
to take care of the boat tired with the
labors of the day lay down to sleep and
the greater part of the passengers
followed their example I now observed my
two men in close conversation but as
this was a matter of frequent occurrence
I paid little attention to the matter
tired with my day's rambles I lay down
upon my bed and a lot by thoughts to
wander too far distant lands my
meditations were gradually merging into
dreams when I felt a hand touched me in
a voice which I knew to be Wong's inform
me that I must not go to sleep when I
asked the reason he informed me that he
had just discovered that the boatman had
entered into a conspiracy against us and
that we were all to be drowned that
night in the river they have gone into
the town to get some of their friends to
assist them said he and they are only
waiting until they think we are fast
asleep I scarcely knew what to think of
the business we were now about 300 miles
from either Shanghai or Ning ball the
night was very dark and if the
threatened attempt should be made we had
little chance of receiving any
assistance from others but I could not
allow myself to believe that in the
interior of this country where the
people were generally quiet and harmless
an act of the kind could be committed
with impunity I therefore did not get up
as Wang wished but told him that I
should take care to remain awake the
city of white ping stands on the high
banks of the cuejoe River one of the
gates was visible to us
owing to a blaze of light thrown over it
by the torches and lanterns of the
Chinese an inclined plane which formed
the road reached from the river up to
the gate and was visible from the boat
as all the Chinese carried lanterns it
was easy for us to see those who came
out of the city and descended towards
the river the evening although dark was
perfectly
so that the slightest noise could be
distinctly heard at a considerable
distance at last the city gate opened
and about a dozen men came out each
carrying a lantern and descended the
hill towards the boat get up get up
quick quickest at my servant for here
they come I jumped up immediately and
waited for the threatened attack with
all the composure I could command my two
Chinamen appeared in a state of great
alarm and kept as close to me as they
possibly could at last the foremost man
in the band approached and jumping
lightly on board peeped in at the door
of our boat hello what do you want cried
both of my men at the same time the
fellow gave a grin said he did not want
us and jumped from our boat to another
which lay alongside his companions also
disappeared amongst the surrounding
boats and left us unmolested now do you
see that said Wong you would not believe
me when I told you that they intended to
seize and drown us but had we not been
awake and fully prepared it would soon
have been all over with us i must
confess i felt a little shaken in my
opinion and scarcely knew what to think
of the business the whole scene to a
look around who could have first seen
the result would have been highly
amusing but it appeared to be much too
serious for me to enjoy it none of the
other passengers were asleep although
they were all in bed and they kept up a
whispering conversation which seemed
ominous and suspicious I felt quite
certain that no assistance would be
rendered to us by then found the
contrary it was not impossible that they
would turn against us and assist the
boat man about half an hour after the
first alarm the city gate was again
opened and some men were observed coming
down the hill with lanterns as the
former ones had done this time it proved
to be the missing boat men who were
supposed to be concocting a conspiracy
with their friends inside the city when
they came on board and tried to look
astonished at the state in which they
found us they laughed at Wong and said
they had no intention of drowning him he
quietly told them that he did not
believe them and turning to me said he
was sure that they still meditated an
attack the fellows now lay down to sleep
and request us to put out our lantern
and do the same this however my servants
would not consent to do as they firmly
believe that the sleep of the boatman
only feigned we were in this state of
excitement from 8 o'clock in the evening
until 3:00 next morning long before this
time the boatman seemed to be sound
asleep the night was perfectly calm and
the only sound which I heard was the
Clank of water wheels similar to those
of the machines I have already described
several of which were moored on the
rapids opposite the city the walls and
ramparts of the old town loomed black
and prison-like in the darkness but
everything was perfectly quiet and the
whole place seems sunk in deep sleep I
felt very much inclined to go to sleep
myself this however my men remonstrated
against and I was obliged to keep them
company for another hour longer at the
end of that time nothing having happened
to keep up the excitement I felt cold
and sleepy so much so that no persuasion
could keep me awake telling Wong to call
me if anything suspicious occurred I
laid down without undressing and was
soon dreaming of robbers boat men and
water wheels when I awoke I found that
it was daylight and that we were
underway and proceeding rapidly up the
stream
15 of our men were on shore tracking the
boat the cook was busily employed making
preparation for our morning meal and
everything was going on in the usual way
as if nothing had happened to disturb us
my own man wearied with watching had
fallen into a sound sleep and were
stretched at full length on the floor of
the boat as the other passengers were
also sleeping soundly I had a little
time to think quietly over the events of
the preceding night and being anxious to
see the old town by daylight I stepped
out of the cabin and took my place on
the high stern of the boat near to the
old man who stood at the helm the Sun
was just rising and its earliest rays
were playing upon the old walls and
watchtowers of white pain how different
the old place looked in daylight from
what it had done in the darkness then
the imagination assisted in making it
appear like a dungeon dark and gloomy
and inhabited by thieves and robbers now
it seemed an ancient city watered by a
clar and beautiful river surrounded by
hills and romantic scenery and defended
by time-honored walls such as the
difference between night and morning
such the power of imagination when I
returned to the cab and I found my
servants rubbing their eyes and scarcely
awake
well said I you see nothing has happened
and we are now underway and some
distance from wiping oh that is all very
well said one of them but had we not
been on guard we should never have lived
to see the morning as the river was now
shallow and in many parts very rapid I
had daily opportunities of rambling over
the country and of inspecting its
productions soon after leaving wiping
one of my guides inform me that we were
now on the border of another province
and that here I had better not go much
out of the boat I found that this advice
was good and worth attending to the
river here is considered the highway or
passage from the one district to the
other and this pass is well guarded by
soldiers each province has its own guard
town on the judge young side we passed a
long straggling town on the river's
banks chiefly inhabited by troops who
worthy guards of the pass and under the
orders of the hangzhou mandarins as soon
as the boundary line was crossed we came
to another place of like size and
appearance also filled with soldiers who
were under the orders of the authorities
of hue Jo in the province of Jeong nan
these two parties formed a sort of
border guard and bore each other I
believe little goodwill they reminded me
of our own border clans in ancient
feudal times boats passing up and down
the river were generally bored it and
had their papers examined by one of the
officers the boat man who had the
dispute with Wong now threatened to have
him punished hair at which he was
greatly frightened the man however if he
ever intended it did not put this threat
into execution and we passed the dreaded
border and safety when we got fairly
inside the yho district I was able to
ramble about in the country as before
the river became not only shallow but in
many parts so full of rocks and stones
that it was next to impossible to pick
out a passage for the boat it still
wound through a hilly and mountainous
country the hills however became
gradually more fertile as we proceeded
and in many parts they were cultivated
to their summits crops of millet and
Indian corn were growing amongst the tea
bushes which were now observed in large
quantities on the side
to the hills the corn and millet growing
up in the hot months of summer and
autumn seemed to afford a partial shade
to the tea which was probably beneficial
to it another reason for the practice
may be found in the fondness of the
Chinese for mixing crops they practice
and operation all over the country I
never saw finer crops of millet and
Indian corn than those which were
growing on these hills the crops were
just ripening being November 2nd and the
Chinese had begun to harvest them in
walking over the country I always went
possible avoided entering large towns
about this time however all the
passengers were obliged to get out of
the boats in order to lighten it and
allow it to be drawn up one of the
shallow rapids we all walked on together
and in a short time came to a town of
considerable size it happened that the
day we arrived was a holiday and a scene
presented itself such as I had never
before witnessed the town was on the
opposite bank two rivers unite here the
town was built between them just at
their Junction one of the rivers was
nearly dry and its bed was now used for
the purpose of giving a grand fete the
bank where we were was probably about
150 or 200 feet above the bed of the
river so that we had a capital view of
what was going on below us the first and
most prominent objects which caught my
eye was a fine seven storied pagoda 40
or 50 feet high standing on the dry bed
of the river near to it was a
summerhouse upon a small scale gaudily
got up and supposed to be in a beautiful
garden artificial figures of men and
women appeared sitting in the verandas
and balconies dressed in the richest
costumes singing birds were whistling
about the windows artificial Lakes were
formed in the bed of the river and the
favored nilam beum appeared floating on
the water
everything denoted that the place
belonged to a person of high rank and
wealth at some little distance a theatre
was erected in front of which stood
several thousands of natives pecked as
closely as possible and evidently highly
interested in the play which was going
on
sometimes the piece appeared so pathetic
that the immense multitude were
perfectly still at other times
things seemed to tickle their fancies
and to afford them the greatest
amusement the actors on the stage were
very gaily dressed in rich silks and
satins of many colors and evidently did
their best to afford amusement to this
immense audience such was the scene
presented to us as we approached the
town said all my fellow passengers
come and see the play and they set off
as fast as they could to a bridge a
little higher up the river by which they
could reach the town and the place where
the festivities were going on I was
quite satisfied with the view I had of
the whole scene from the opposite bank
and therefore declined the invitation to
go nearer the old dwarf whom I had
already mentioned and who had taken
every opportunity in his power to show
his goodwill volunteered to remain with
me and my two servants we sat down on
the green grass and had an excellent
view of the whole proceedings the
Chinese never seemed to tire and would
have remained there all day but as our
boat would pass up the other branch of
the river it was necessary for us to get
to it we therefore crossed the bridge
and passed through the center of the
town no one seemed to have the slightest
idea that I was a foreigner indeed the
poor old dwarf attracted far more
attention than any of us I did not
remark anything of interest in this town
except some large tea Hong's and
carpenter's shops where tea chests were
being made when we had passed through
the place and reached the other branch
of the river we entered a ferryboat and
crossed over to the other side
amongst the ferryboat passengers were
two very pretty and handsomely dressed
young ladies with whom I was greatly
amused when they came into the boat they
seated themselves quietly by my side and
began chatting to each other in high
spirits I could not help contrasting
their conduct with that of any of their
country women at the five ports where
foreigners are permitted to trade
respectably dressed females always fly
from foreigners as they would do from
any wild and ferocious animal had these
pretty damsels known that a barbarian
was seated at their side how astonished
and frightened they would have been
about evening just before dark
the boat arrived and lay abreast of the
town during the night all the men now
applied for leave to go on shore to see
the play some of them appeared very
anxious that I should
with them but being quite contented with
the adventures of the day I declined the
invitation it was very late before they
all came back but this did not prevent
us from getting underway at the usual
time next morning and proceeding on our
journey after we had gone some distance
the head boat man came round and
informed the passengers that it would be
necessary to engage another boat to take
part of his cargo as the river was too
shallow to allow him to get up so deeply
laden as he was moreover he coolly
proposed that the expenses of the second
boat should be defrayed by the
passengers given as his reason that by
this means they would get sooner to
their destination as the sum was not a
large one this was agreed to and a
second boat was engaged a circumstance
now occurred which astonished me not a
little at the time although it must be a
common thing in the country when the
second boat was brought alongside and
the floor of our cabin taken up to get
at the cargo I found that we had some
fellow passengers which I had never
calculated upon two enormous coffins
each containing the body of a
had been lying directly under my bed for
the last three weeks without my having
the least suspicion of the fact it was
perhaps just as well that this was the
case for the knowledge of the
circumstance would not have added to my
comfort and might have made me sleep
less soundly these coffins were now
removed to the other boat in which they
were taken onwards to their last resting
place on enquiring I found that the
deceased were natives of cuejoe and had
left their native country some years
before to reside at Hangzhou where they
had died their friends were now taking
their remains back to their own land to
be buried in the graves of their
ancestors I had greatly been annoyed at
the cowardice and fear of Wang he had
still the most serious apprehensions for
his safety as his enemy the boat man
continued to threaten him I tried to
laugh at him and convinced him that the
boat man would do him no harm but it was
of no use at last he came to me and
explained a plan which he had been
concocting in which he proposed putting
into execution next day it was simply
this he and I were to leave the boat
ostensibly to walk in the country as
usual but with the intention of not
returning to it I asked him what was to
be done with our beds and lug
and what he proposed doing with the
other man he proposed that all must be
left behind that if he attempted to
leave the boat openly measures would be
taken to stop him and that as the
could not be trusted
he must be left also he did not intend
even to pay what was due upon our
passage money such was the plan which
after days and nights of deep thought as
he told me he had at last made up his
mind to put into execution and to which
he now begged that I would agree I
thought over the business for some
minutes and then came to the
determination not to adopt his
suggestions I was unwilling to leave
behind me the seeds of the tea shrub and
of the other new plants which I had
discovered and I did not think the state
of the case so urgent as to force me to
the unworthy measure of leaving the
other man behind and the boat man unpaid
this plan of yours will not do said I if
you can leave the boat in an open manner
taking your companion along with you and
paying all charges I have no objection
either to go on shore or to hire another
boat but I cannot consent to go away and
the manner you proposed I was very glad
afterwards that I was firm enough to
pursue this course a day or two after
this I was informed in the morning that
we were within thirty Li of the town of
twins XI and that we should arrive there
in the evening this was the destination
of our boat and here we should leave it
in the afternoon about two o'clock we
were only four miles distant from this
place and as the water was very shallow
and we were making but little progress
most of the passengers determined to
walk onwards to the town we all began to
pack up our luggage and make
preparations for the journey the opium
smoker who with all his civility was a
man I could not trust was now very
anxious to know to what part of the
country we were bound by Chinese
servants who had learned a little wit by
experience took good care to keep all
these matters to themselves their great
object being to cut off all connection
between their friends and the boat and
those with whom we might have to
associate afterwards our passage money
was now fully paid up our luggage packed
and an arrangement made between my two
men with regard to the station to which
we were bound when this was all arranged
I left the in charge of the
luggage took
Wong on shore and walked downwards
towards twin XI which we reached between
3 and 4 o'clock in the afternoon it is a
thriving busy town and forms as it were
the port of Wei Cho from which it is
distant about 20 miles all the large
Hangzhou and Yin Jo boats are moored and
loaded here the river being too shallow
to allow if they're proceeding higher up
and hence it is a place of great trade
nearly all the green teas which are sent
down the river to Hangzhou and thence
onward to Shanghai are shipped at this
place the green teas destined for Canton
are carried across a range of hills to
the westward where there is a river
which flows in the direction of the pole
yang Lake this part of the country is
very populous nearly the whole way from
the place where we had left our boat was
covered with houses forming a kind of
suburb of twin XI this place itself is
supposed to contain about a hundred and
fifty thousand inhabitants the great
article of trade is green tea there are
here a number of large dealers who by
this article from the farmers and
priests refine it and sort it form it
into chops and forward it to Shanghai or
Canton where it is sold to the foreign
merchants seven or eight hundred shops
are said to be sent out of this town
annually I observed also a great number
of carpenter shops for the manufacture
of chess a trade which of itself must
employ a large number of men in fact
this town in the surrounding populous
district may be said to be supported by
the foreign tea trade nearly all the way
from yen Chau the river was bounded by
high hills on each side now however they
seemed as were to fall back and left an
extensive a beautiful valley through the
middle of which the river flowed nearly
all this low land is under tea
cultivation the soil is rich and fertile
and the bushes consequently grown most
luxuriant Lee I had never before seen
the tea plant in such a flourishing
condition and this convinced me that
soil had much to do with the superiority
of the cuejoe green teas after spending
about an hour in the town we inquired
where we could hire a chair to take us
onward about 30 li further and we're
directed to an inn or tea house where
chairs are let on higher the
circumstance happened in this
which gave me some amusement at the time
and which I have often laughed at since
when we entered this house we found a
great number of travelers of all ranks
some were drinking tea others smoking
and the remainder stretched upon chairs
or tables sound asleep
seeing strangers arrived some of the
more restless were rather inquisitive
and began to put a number of questions
to us
my man Wong was a native of this
district and of course I understood the
dialect perfectly but he evidently
wanted to have as little to say as
possible as for myself I told him I did
not understand what they said
one fellow in particular who probably
was sharp enough to detect something
unusual and my appearance was determined
not to be put off in this way and kept
asking me a variety of questions at
length the old innkeeper came up and
said with the utmost gravity it is of no
use you're talking to this person
he understands the Guan hua only you do
not speak that and of course he cannot
understand you nor you him this seemed
to be perfectly satisfactory to all
parties and I was left unmolested our
chairs being ready we got into them and
passing through the town
crossed the river and took the road for
some law and show Ning we reached our
destination a little before dark and I
had the first view of the far-famed
soulish on the hill where green tea is
said to have been first discovered the
hill of song law our Sun law Shan is
situated in the province of Jiang nan
and the district of sho Ning it is
famous in China as being the place where
the green tea shrub was first discovered
and where green tea was first
manufactured in a book called the show
Ning chai published ad 1693 and quoted
by mr. ball there is the following
notice of this place quote the hill or
mountain where tea is produced is song
low mountain a bonds of the sect of four
taught a Jiang nan man named Koh Tai the
art of making tea and thus it was called
some low tea the tea got speedily into
great repute so that the bonds became
rich and abandoned the profession of
priests the man is gone and only the
name remains ye men of learning and
travelers who seek some low tea may now
search in vain that which is sold in the
markets is a mere counterfeit end quote
some lotion
to be between two and three thousand
feet above the level of the plains
it is very barren and whatever may have
formerly been the case it certainly
produces but little tea now indeed from
all I could learn the tea that grows
upon it is quite neglected as far as
cultivation is concerned and is only
gathered to supply the wants of the
priests of four who have many temples
against these rugged wilds nevertheless
it is a place of great interest every
and has afforded a subject to
many of their writers the lowlands of
this district and those of MU yen
situated a few miles further south
produce the greater part of fine green
teas of Commerce hence the distinction
between
Hill tea and garden tea the latter
simply applying to those teas which are
carefully cultivated in the plains the
soil here is a rich loan not unlike the
cotton soil of Shanghai but more free in
its texture being mixed with a
considerable portion of sand in the
green tea district of wage oh and I
believe in all other parts where the
shrub is cultivated it is multiplied by
seeds the seeds are ripe in the month of
October when gathered they are generally
put into a basket and mixed up with sand
and earth in a damp state and in this
condition they are kept until spring if
this plan is not pursued only a small
portion of them will germinate like the
seeds of the oak and chestnut they are
destroyed when exposed to sudden changes
in temperature and moisture in the month
of March the seeds are taken out of the
basket and placed in the ground they are
generally sown thickly in rows or in
beds in a nursery or in some spare
corner of the tea farm and sometimes the
vacancies and the existing plantations
are made up by sowing five or six seeds
in each vacant space when the young
plants are a year old they are in a fit
state for transplanting this is always
done at the change of the monsoon in
spring when fine warm showers are a
frequent occurrence they are planted in
rows about four feet apart and in groups
of five or six plants in the row the
distance between each plant or patch is
generally about four feet the first crop
of leaves is taken from these plants in
the third year when under cultivation
they rarely attain a greater height than
three or four feet when the winters are
very severe the natives ties straw band
around the bushes to protect them from
the frost and to prevent it and the snow
from splitting them in my former work
three years wanderings in the northern
provinces of China I offer some remarks
upon the preference which many persons
in Europe in America have for colored
green teas and I will now give a full
and particular account of the coloring
process as practice in the way Joe green
tea country upon those teas which are
destined for the foreign market two
kinds of Prussian blue are used by the
tea manufacturers one is the kind
commonly met with and the other as I
have seen only in the north of China I
formerly mistook this for a kind of
indigo it is less heavy than common
Prussian blue of a bright pale tint and
very beautiful turmeric root to this
frequently employed in Canton but I did
not observe it in use in cuejoe I
procured samples of these ingredients
from the in the factory in
order that there might be no mistake as
to what they really were these were sent
home to the Great Exhibition last year
and a portion of them submitted to mr.
Warrington of apothecaries Hall whose
investigations in connection with this
subject are well known in a paper read
by him before the chemical society and
published in its memoirs and proceedings
he says quote mr. fortune is forwarded
from the north of China for the
industrial exhibition specimens of these
materials tea dyes which from their
parents there can be no hesitation in
stating our fibrous gypsum tumeric root
and Prussian blue after this digression
on the green tea shrub in the country
where it was first found I now resume
the account of my travels when we reach
the Sun Low Country I took up my
quarters in a house which belonged to
the father of my servant Wong it was
nearly dark before we arrived at the
house which was situated amongst the
hills within two miles of the foot of
song lo had I fixed upon the spot myself
I could not have found one better suited
to the purposes I had in view old mr.
Wong was a farmer who at one time had
been well off in the world but like many
others had been unfortunate and was now
very much reduced in circumstances he
received us in the kindest manner and
seemed to have great affection for his
son his wife also came to welcome us at
the same time apologizing for the poor
reception they gave us as they were so
poor I tried not to be out
done and politeness and we were soon on
the best possible terms the table was
soon spread with our evening meal and
chopsticks in hand we went to work and
did ample justice to the fair set before
us shortly afterwards the Chinese being
early in their habits we retired to rest
next morning the rain was falling in
torrents so that it was impossible to
stir out of doors in these circumstances
a Chinese cottage is most uncomfortable
place of confinement four families
resided in the building in which I was
now located two in the lower and two in
the upper storey each of these families
had a separate kitchen and as there were
no chimneys the smoke had to make its
escape through the doors windows and
roof of the house the natives were
accustomed to this and did not greatly
mind it but to me it was almost
insupportable the smoke got into my eyes
and almost drove me mad with pain go
where I would it was all the same for
the house was quite full of it I quite
dreaded the approach of mealtime when
all the fires were lighted there was no
remedy however except going out into the
heavy rain so that I was obliged to
suffer as patiently as I could on the
evening of the second day my and
the good old dwarf arrived with my
luggage and told Wong some wonderful
stories about the narrow escapes they
had had from his friends the boatman the
said he had been so much alarmed
that he had spent the whole night in the
temple it being the only place where he
considered himself safe it was not
necessary for me to believe all these
things more particularly as all the
luggage had come safely to hand which
could scarcely have been the case had
the boatman been as bad as was
represented for three days the rain fell
incessantly and was also very cold
the Chinese tried to keep themselves
warm by putting on thick clothing and
strange to say by reading aloud which
they did in a loud singing manner
repeating the words as fast as they
could when tired with this way of
amusing themselves nearly the whole of
them went to bed as being the most
comfortable place under the
circumstances and strongly recommended
me to follow their example song low
mountain which in ordinary weather I
could have seen from the windows was now
enveloped in a cloak of mist
every tree and bush was bent down with
heavy drops of rain at last on the
fourth day the clouds cleared away the
Sun shone out again with its usual
brilliancy and the whole face of nature
were a cheerful and smiling aspect I was
now out every day from morning until
evening busily employed in collecting
seeds in examining the vegetation of the
hills and in obtaining information
regarding the cultivation and
manufacture of green tea by this means I
obtained a good collection of those tea
seeds and young plants from which the
finest green teas of Commerce are
prepared and much information of a
useful kind which I have endeavoured in
the last chapter to lay before the
reader in the meantime I had not lost
sight of the beautiful new berberis
which I have already described in which
I was most anxious to procure in order
to introduce it into Europe it
frequently desired Wang to endeavor to
procure me some young plants of it from
some garden in the neighbourhood as I
could not believe it to be so rare as to
only exist in the old place where I'd
first seen it however he could not find
it or what was more probable he gave
himself no trouble about the matter
knowing the potent influence of dollars
I called three or four of the family
around me one morning and showing them
the leaf which I had brought with me
promised $1 to any one of them who would
bring me a small plant of the same shrub
one of them went out immediately into my
surprise and pleasure returned in less
than five minutes with a fresh leaf of
the plant in question that will do said
I that is just the thing I want
bring me a young plant with good roots
and I will give you the promised reward
they now held a consultation amongst
themselves in an undertone and last said
that the plant in question had some
peculiar medical virtues and that the
lucky possessor would not part with it
sell me this one said I and you will be
able to buy a dozen others with the
money no one of them replied my uncle
and whose garden it is growing does not
want money he's rich enough but he
requires a little of the plant now and
then when he is unwell and therefore he
will not part with it this was very
provoking but the Chinese were firm and
there was nothing for it but to go as
Saylor say upon an
they're tak this site determined to do
well at all events said I let me see the
plant don't be afraid I shall not touch
it for some time they refused to do even
this but through Wong's influence they
were at last induced to consent and led
the way down to a small cottage garden
completely covered with weeds there the
beautiful shrub was growing
apparently neglected and left to bloom
unseen it seemed very valuable in the
uncle's estimation and he would not part
with it although I tried hard to induce
him to do so it might be that he really
valued its medicinal properties but as
it must be common enough in that part of
the country he could easily have
replaced it it was not unlikely
therefore that he's supposed I should
offer some very large sum to induce him
to part with it on the following day
another relation of Wong's came to me in
a secret manner and informed me that he
was acquainted with another place where
the same plant was to be had a net for a
consideration he would go and fetch some
of it for me I engaged him at once
merely telling him that he must bring
young plants with good roots otherwise
they would be entirely useless to me
this he faithfully promised to do and he
kept his word in the course of the day
he returned with three good plants which
he sold to me in which I afterwards took
back to Shanghai these are now safely in
England I spent a week in the
neighborhood of some low and then began
to think of returning eastward with the
collections I made my was now
giving long and no little annoyance in
the hope of extorting money from him the
had observed how he had been
frightened by the boatman and doubtless
thought that he too might make something
out of his timidity but Wong was now in
his father's house and consequently more
bold he refused to be squeezed to the
amount of $4 a sum which the other
fellow demanded the latter after a great
deal of blustering language left the
house with the threat of bringing some
countrymen of his own to force
compliance with his demands he returned
however in the course of an hour without
any companions and the subject having
been mentioned to me in the meantime
I sent for him and threatened to punish
him by withholding his wages if I heard
any more of the matter and after this he
became more quiet and I believe the
matter was final
arranged by his accepting a loan in the
meantime old mr. Wang and whose house we
were staying having occasion to go down
and twin Shion business was desired by
me to engage a boat to take us down the
river again as far as a place called
Nijo he returned in due time and brought
a chop which had been entered into with
the boatman now I could not read the
Chinese language and therefore had to
get Wong to read the chop over to me and
explain it more particularly that part
which specified the sum I was to pay the
chop stated where we were to be taken to
the number of men we were to have in the
boat the charges for good rice which
they were to supply three times a day
and the hire of the boat with regard to
the last item Wong informed me that it
stated I was to pay the sum of $24 part
before we started and the remainder at
the end of the journey the sum which I
had brought with me was reduced to about
$30 I had been obliged to pay very high
prices for everything during the journey
and felt convinced that the Chinese
system of squeezing had been in full
operation up to the present time I had
submitted to it with a good grace
knowing that this was the only way to
which I was likely to attain the object
I had in view but now it was absolutely
necessary for me to rebel the place to
which we were to be taken by this boat
was at least 100 miles from any of the
ports where the English resided and
where money could be procured and I had
every reason to expect that a sum equal
to this would be demanded for taking me
on from Nijo tuning fork and this latter
demand I should not have been able to
pay besides I knew very well or at least
I had every reason to suspect that the
sum stated to me by Wong was much more
than his father had agreed for with the
boatman I therefore said to him that I
was quite sure the chap was not correct
and that whether it was or not I could
not pay such a large sum and must devise
some other means of proceeding down the
country he pretended to be highly
indignant at even my suspecting his
veracity and was entering into a long
explanation when I cut the matter short
by saying that my mind was made up upon
the subject and that as the sum he named
was out of the question
I should endeavour to engage another
boat myself or through the
moreover I hinted that if things could
not be managed
way I would call upon the Mandarin of
twin she and ask his assistants to
enable me to engage a boat at a fair and
proper price
I then desired him to say no more to me
on this subject and walked away
this treatment produced exactly the
effect which I intended it should do and
in a few minutes old Wang returned and
coolly asked me what's um I was willing
to give for the higher of the boat what
is the use of your asking that question
I replied if you tell me you have
engaged about at $24 if I take the boat
I must of course pay this sum if not I
only forfeit the bargain money which you
said you have paid nevermind that said
he tell me what sum you could give for
the higher of this boat and then we
shall see whether it is sufficient or
not
well said I I must reach Ningbo for $24
and I know that sum is quite sufficient
for the journey
very well he replied with the greatest
coolness give me 15 for this boat from
twin si the Nijo and I will guarantee
that the other five shall take you on to
Ningbo this was agreed to on my part and
the business was apparently arranged to
mr. Wong's satisfaction and no wonder
for having kept the chop which I
afterwards got translated at Ning ball
I found that five dollars instead of 24
was the sum charge for the boat to nicho
so that the Wong's had after all made 10
by the transaction such as the character
of the Chinese they have no idea of
telling the truth unless it suits their
interests to do so in fact I used to
often think that they ran a preferred
line unless it was against their
interests all our arrangements being
complete the seeds put up and the plants
packed
I hired a chair and on the afternoon of
the 20th of November bade adieu to one's
family and to the country of the
far-famed song leshan the day was wet
and stormy and I had most disagreeable
ride to twin XI towards evening the gale
increased and the rain fell in torrents
I had procured some oil paper to protect
my feet and knees from the rain which
was blown in upon me in front and my men
who accompanied me also covered
themselves with the same material but it
was of little use to us and long before
we reached our destination we were
drenched to the skin to make matters
worse it became quite dark before we
reached twins XI and it was with great
difficulty that might share bearers
could keep on the narrow road
and prevent themselves from slipping and
falling down our road led along the high
bank of the river and was rather
dangerous to travel on in such a night
once the foremost man came down and I
was all but blown over the bank into the
river indeed had the second man not held
on firmly by the chair I believe it must
have fallen over the precipice chair in
all the lights of the town at last came
in sight and as we entered its narrow
streets
I ordered the Chairman to set me down
and wait until my servants came up the
bearers accordingly stopped in front of
a teahouse into which they entered and
called for some refreshment while they
were inside the house I was looking out
for my men as it was just possible that
they might pass us in the dark in a few
minutes one came up to me in a state of
great excitement and almost pulled me
out of the chair come away
be quick said he leave the chair where
it is and let us hurry onwards I got out
thinking that something very serious was
about to happen and plunged onwards
through the mud and rain we had not gone
many yards when the Chairman gave chase
and coming up with us collared Wong and
demanded their fare what is the meaning
of this proceeding said I you received
money for me to pay these men before we
started and now you want to run off
without paying them at all do not make
any noise he replied I will account for
the money afterwards but give me some
more now to get rid of these men and I
did so and we then went on when the
Chairman left us I was bringing Wong to
task for dishonesty he then told me that
as he was coming up behind my chair he
had observed another chair in which
there was a great general closely
following mine and that he suspected
that this man had some intentions of
seizing us and making us prisoners we
plunged onwards and saw no more of the
great general who was probably all the
time thinking much more of getting
indoors from the pelting storm than of
molesting us indeed I strongly suspected
that the whole affair was only a trick
of longs to get rid of the chair bearers
and to rob them of their money which
ought to have been paid to them on
starting we were now in the town of twin
XI and having crossed the river by a
bridge soon reached our boat my bed and
all my clothes were soaked with rain and
I spent a most uncomfortable night early
on the following morning the boat was
pushed out into the stream and we
proceeded rapidly down the river
the storm of the previous night had
entirely passed away and never had I
seen a more beautiful morning the Sun
shone gaily the atmosphere was clear and
bracing and everything more a cheerful
and smiling aspect with little exertion
on the part of our crew we floated
rapidly down the stream passing in a
quick succession the woods towns and
villages which lined its banks sometimes
as we look downwards our course seemed
to be stopped by mountain barriers but
as we approached them away opened out
and we glided rapidly through between
the mountains which frequently rose to a
height of at least 3,000 feet the moon
was just past the fall and the scenery
by moonlight was striking and grand
sometimes the moon rose and all her
grandeur above the tops of the mountains
and through a flood of mellowed light
upon the clear and shining River which
made it appear to Sparkle as if covered
with a thousand bright gems again as we
approached the eastern shore the moon
appeared to sink behind the mountains
and set where she rose and we were left
in the shade and so as we floated
onwards she rose and set many times
until she was so high in the sky that
the mountains could no longer intercept
her raise the river being rapid and in
many parts studded with rocks and large
stones most dangerous to navigation we
were often obliged when evening came to
drive a bamboo pole into the bank and
fasten our boat up for the night on one
occasion a sudden change of weather took
place an event common amongst these
mountains when we went to bed the
evening was calm and serene and there
was no appearance of any change in the
weather before midnight however two or
three sudden gusts of wind followed each
other in quick succession and in the
short space of a quarter of an hour it
was blowing a gale I was awakened by a
sudden gust which blew the door open and
then nearly swept the roof off at the
same time the boat was torn from her
moorings and driven out into the stream
we were now in a dangerous position for
this part of the river was full of rocks
all the men were up and with two large
skulls and bamboo poles tried to get the
boat inshore some of them were lashing
the roof firmly down to the hull with
ropes and I thought it would have been
carried away before it could have been
secured Chinamen like our crew were
making a great noise all were giving
orders and none obeying them in the
meantime we were flying down before the
wind and with a rapid current I expected
every moment that the boat would strike
upon the rocks and be dashed to pieces
luckily however they managed to get her
ashore and ran upon a bank of sand where
she was made fast again at daylight the
wind had abated considerably but it
still blew too strong for us to get
underway
we were therefore obliged to remain
where we were during the greater part of
the day our boat man invited some of
their friends who were detained by the
same cause as ourselves to come on board
to dine and play cards and in this way
they amused themselves until the
afternoon
when the weather had moderated and we
proceeded on our voyage in three days we
arrived at the city of Yenko a journey
which occupied twelve days and going up
and in three days more that is on the
sixth day after leaving twin XI we
arrived at the town of nito nito is a
small but busy town a few miles higher
up the river than the city of Hangzhou
it is a place of some importance as it
stands on the main road between cuejoe
and Ning Bal large numbers of river
boats were at anchor abreast of the town
some from Hawaii Jo Yong Jo and the
other towns up the river and many from
the city of Hangzhou I suppose the
population of the town and boats may
amount to twenty or thirty thousand I
had frequently heard of the rapidity of
the tides in the river but had never
seen anything remarkable about them
until this evening we were all seated at
dinner or rather supper for it was the
third and last meal of the day when I
heard a rush of water and a great noise
amongst the boats with which we were
moored Jon Shui Jiang Shui exclaimed a
hundred voices and two or three of our
men jumped up and ran out to guide the
boat and went out also to see what was
going on and observed a large wave
coming rolling up towards us taking boat
after boat in its progress it whirled it
round in an instant until the whole
fleet were riding the flood I can only
compare the seen to that presented by
some Highland River which swelled after
a storm by many mountain streams came
rolling down to the lowlands flooding
the country in its course and bearing
everything before it having discharged
our way Jo boat we proceeded through the
town to the
- of a small canal where another boat
was engaged to take us on to a town
called Xiang Yu or Tala a place not very
far from the source of the Ningbo River
the canal was narrow and led us through
a beautiful hilly country all the
lowland was evidently very wet and only
fit for the cultivation of rice and
vegetables a few miles below nicho we
passed a small town where there are
government's salt warehouses about this
part of the canal boats are not allowed
to go on by night in order I suppose to
prevent smuggling we were therefore
stopped about 9 o'clock in the evening
and informed that we must not proceed
until daylight I thought this was quite
settled when Wong came and asked me
whether I wanted to go on or not he said
if I wish to proceed it was only
necessary to pay the soldier who had
stopped us about 20 cash or one penny
and then I might do as I pleased this is
the way these things are managed in
China we of course paid the cash and
went on next morning we arrived at a
town of considerable size named Xiao
Jing
it seems densely populated and probably
contains nearly as many inhabitants of
Shanghai but 270,000 the city is walled
and fortified in the same manner as all
other places of this class the canal
passes around the city walls and forms a
sort of moat a branch of it goes
straight through the city itself being
anxious to visit this place I directed
my boat man to go through the city and
we entered it by an arch and the
ramparts the walls of Xiao Jing are
between 3 and 4 miles and circumference
but like most Chinese cities the space
enclosed is not all built over on the
sides of the canal the houses have a
somewhat mean and poor appearance but
they are better in other parts of the
town a great trade seems to be carried
on and all the common necessaries of
life and as the town is as it were a
half way station between Hangzhou and
Ming fall it is visited by a great
number of travelers a considerable
quantity of tea is grown on the hills
not far from here it is I believe of a
very fair quality and second only to
that of Kwai Cho amongst the sites here
which the Chinese point out that are
proud of is a fine Buddhist temple
standing on a pretty little hill just
outside the city walls
I saw many ornamental gates in the town
erected to the memory of virtuous women
who judging from the number of these
structures must have been unusually
numerous in the place but its chief fame
results from the number of literary men
which it has produced and who are
scattered over the whole of the Empire
wherever you meet them it is their pride
and boast to have received their
education in the city of shaoxing the
surrounding country here is flat and in
every direction intersected by canals
the hills which are seen at no great
distance have a barren appearance at
least they are far from being so fertile
as those in the green tea country from
which I had just come rice appeared to
be the staple production as it is on all
low wetlands in this part of China about
three o'clock in the afternoon we
arrived at the town of tawa
here we left the nicho boat and walked
about a mile across the country to
another small town named Pakwan this
town stands on the banks of a river
which falls into the bay of Hangzhou
when I first saw this River I imagined
it to be the one which flows down to the
city of Ningbo but I soon found that
this was not the case
Pakwan is a long straggling town full of
pack houses eating houses and tea shops
for the accommodation of travelers and
their goods
I found that several foreigners had been
here before and consequently the
inhabitants were well-acquainted with
their features I was recognized as a
foreigner immediately on my entering the
town but was most civilly treated and
had no difficulty in engaging a boat to
take me on words for this purpose I
entered the home look or boat in and
procured a shop by which the end keeper
bound himself to send me onto Ning ball
for the sum of $3 during the night we
passed over two embankments which fur
small vessels answer the same purposes
as the locks on our canals at home this
mode of getting from a higher to a lower
level or vice versa is common in China
where locks such as those seen in Europe
do not seem to be used is our boat
glided swiftly down the inclined plane
at midnight amidst the lanterns of the
Chinese the effect was curious enough to
a person like myself who had never seen
anything of the kind before the second
launch brought us upon the waters of the
Ning para ver during the night we
a large city named Yu Yao and next
morning I found we were sailing down a
wide and beautiful stream which I knew
passed the city of Ningbo and entered
the sea at geun-hye nothing worthy of
note occurred until I reached the town
of Ning ba it was as welcome a sight as
I had seen for many a day when the old
town with its pagoda temples and
ramparts came and view it was well known
to me in former years and I felt myself
quite at home after a long and somewhat
perilous although in many respects a
pleasant journey okay he makes a pic to
mean boss safe and sound and he's
carrying a nice load of green tea seeds
plant specimens and all kinds of
cuttings he picked up along the way did
you hear the part where there's this
huge rush of water and someone yells out
cheung chiu-hung say what fortune was
witnessing was one of the famous tidal
bores of those rivers Jun Shui means
just that the water is rising this
natural wonder still delights and amuses
people to this day fortune got to kick
back in the vicinity of some low shine
some low mountain famous throughout the
tea drinking world firts tea and its
reputation as the place where tea
cultivation supposedly began this was
not exactly true but not everyone in the
West knew that yet he quoted from a mr.
ball it was terribly curious who this
might be and just in case you were to I
looked into this and I think I was able
to track down this authority who in his
writings read by fortune gave the
lowdown on fall of some low mountain as
a place for tea cultivation there was a
dr. Dyer ball 1796 to 1866 an American
physician and missionary from West
Boylston Massachusetts he learned
Chinese in America and went to China via
Singapore and did all kinds of
missionary and medical work there and
later ended up in Canton where he later
died dr. ball was interred there in a
cemetery that no longer exists by all
accounts he lived quite an extraordinary
life as did all these writers I'm going
to introduce to you they all lived a
very long time ago and I'm going to
excavate their lost er Forgotten China
travel riding and bring them to you
that's the whole purpose of the China
vintage hour I'm sparing you the brunt
of Robert fortunes botanical
observations he was a trained botanist
and expert in everything of
horticultural nature he lays it on thick
with his observations of trees bushes
flowers and all manners of flora I'm
editing out most of these details hope
you don't mind
maybe next episode we'll take a break
from Robert fortune and circle back
maybe another day I'll pick out
something nice for next time
don't worry until then this is Lazlo
Montgomery signing off from the movie
capital of the world
I think it still is Los Angeles
California you're most welcome to go
check out our sister and brother podcast
the China history podcast and the
Chinese sayings podcast all free all the
time take care my beloved and treasured
listeners I'd love to see you again next
time so please consider coming back for
another old-fashioned episode from the
China vintage hour